---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

# Week 1: Definitions and Origins

This week of class focused mainly on the nature of open source software, both legally and culturally. We contemplated questions as specific as "what are the criteria licesnse-wise for a piece of code to be open source?", as expansive as "what is the history of the open source movement?", and as practical as "how do we judge the accessibility to new contributors of open source projects?".

## Personal experiences

I have had a longstanding interest in Open Source Software--way back in high school when I was taking my first computer science classes, and I began to truly understand what exactly Open Source Software is, I became a staunch believer in the benefits, both functional and moral, of software with visible source code which can be modified by users without (significant) restrictions. 

In my view, the functional benefits include the following things:

- Open source software can be collaborated on by many parties so that the work they do can be added on to the work other parties do.

- Relatedly, allowing other developers to view and edit source code means that the creator/company building that software doesn't have to spend time and resources on doing that work themself.

- Letting the source code be viewed helps independent researchers find vulnerabilities quicker.

- Having an open source program that can be used and viewed and modified by anyone makes it less likely that incompatible standards are created by 2 or more different entities.

- Open source software can exist long after original maintainers abandon them due to forks.

- Open source software gives companies good PR and also an air of increased credibility.

The moral benefits 

- People, I believe, have a right to know what they are running on their computer. Open source projects, and particularly Libre/Free software projects, provide a guarantee that the software you run can be audited by someone who knows what is going on.

- Open source software projects have a much more difficult time violating users' privacy, as if tracking/telemetry is put into an open source project, a privacy respecting fork can be created (see what happened with Audacity).

- Open source software is often accessible to more groups that a closed source project may not see a reason to impact--the community can translate it and port it to different systems and contexts, allowing swaths of users who could previously not use a piece of software to not only use it but improve upon it.

- Open source software projects are almost always preserved for posterity, whereas closed source projects may never be released even long after their commercial significance has ended.

- Open source software projects contribute to the collective knowledge and capability of the human race rather than being hoarded for the benefit of a few shareholders.

The drawbacks of open source software are in my view pragmatic

- It's harder to make money off of open source software than off of closed source software, particularly when sold as SaaS.

- Allowing for forks may split developer attention away onto many different projects, although I don't think this is a huge concern in practice.

- Attackers can find vulnerabilities in the source code, or even inject their own if they obfuscate it well enough. I don't think this is a huge concern in practice, as there are also more people capable of catching vulnerabilities, and the difficulty of getting intentional vulnerabilities through a robust code review process is very high.

I do not include in this list difficulties that are only because of superior processes to closed source software--the possibility of a community hostile to inexperienced contributors is still better than one that disallows any contributors from outside the organization creating this software.

It is because of my understanding of the benefits of OSS, and my love for particular pieces of OSS, that I have wanted to work with open source for a long time, and over this past summer I managed to do that, working on the Linux Kernel Memory Manager as an intern at Google. This experience led me to want to learn more about open source and do more with it, thus leading me to want to take this class even more than I wanted to previously.
