---
layout: post
title: Week 7, Linux and (c)Groups
---

## Humble Beginnings of Groupwork

This week I was assigned my group for the final project in the course. I will be working with Jinli Xiao! He is very interested in operating systems development and so I think it'll be great to work with him on the Linux Kernel. We decided on the Linux kernel because it was something he was interested in and is in a field which he has specialized knowledge in, and it is something that I have experience with and have contacts from people who do linux kernel development full time at Google from what I was doing over my summer internship.

<!--more-->

We have not been able to do all that much yet, as it's nontrivial to get a testing environment for linux kernel development set up. You have to get a virtual machine, find an initramfs to boot with the kernel image, make a configuration for compilation, actually compile the kernel which can take quite a while. This is particularly difficult if you are unfamiliar with the linux kernel development process and are using a non-linux machine to test (especially a non-x86 Mac) so this will likely take Jinli some time to get acclimated to. However, I am sure both of us will be able to get to a place where we can think about making actual contributions to the kernel quite soon after the end of spring break.

## Worries and Hopes

My biggest worry is not that we will have problems with the community or with understanding the things we'd need, but rather that we can't find any place to meaningfully contribute to Linux. It's a huge project which should mean that there are many different avenues to which one could contribute, however the reality is that there are also at least hundreds of people working full time on linux kernel development at companies like Red Hat, Google, Meta, Amazon, Samsung, and SUSE. Given this, it's often hard for a newbie without anything incredibly hardware specific they can provide (i.e. drivers for hardware for which they have the schematic) to find something significant to contribute to. Unlike many other projects, there are no "good first issue"s. Additionally, the mailing lists are incredibly active and it's very important to keep up to date with information regarding the subsystem you're trying to contribute to, as if things change while you're still working on your contribution or if someone else discusses an alternate way to solve your problem, then you have to be able to respond in reasonable time. 

However I am also incredibly hopeful that we will be able to find something that we can actually contribute to within the Linux Kernel and that in so doing we can deploy code that we have written to quite literally billions of computers (as linux is used in tons of embedded applications) over the next few years. Even if this change is as limited in scope as a 0.3% performance improvement on certain workloads or a removal/refactor of a few lines of code, to be able to contribute to a piece of software that is so utterly crucial to our modern world would be an amazing opportunity. Furthermore, I hope it will further deepen and expand my understanding of this complex piece of software, which will in general help me understand the nature of large software projects and how to most effectively navigate through the process of becoming comfortable with them. I have no doubt that we'll be able to work effectively as a team and coordinate our contributions. In my mind, there is a lot to be excited for in this group project!
