---
layout: post
title: Week 3, Versioning and Controlling
---

I have already done pretty extensive work with git over my summer internship last summer, such as git cherry-picking then interactive rebasing and sometimes even interactively staging and unstaging hunks using `git add -i` on a project with 4 remotes, and so the new git intro activity was not honestly very helpful to me, given that I have forked and cloned and logged and status'ed and added new remotes and dealt with complicated merge conflicts before. It was interesting learning about the Onion model and particularly the title of Benevolent Dictator for Life which I now aspire to hold. In general however learning about how new contributors are viewed in open source projects was very useful for thinking about my future contributions.

<!--more-->

Learning something of the overall history of version control systems was very interesting. I have dabbled in a tiny bit of mercurial but it uses somewhat different terms for a lot of things than git so it was interesting to know many of the general/abstract terms. It was also good to get a bit more of an academic breakdown of git (e.g. staged, tracked)

## Projection on projects

Discussing the ways in which we can judge fitness of projects for contribution was also quite helpful. Beyond the obvious stuff like "are there still people maintaining this", and "is there information on how to get started", there is also "how do they organizationally handle issues" and "how welcoming are they". Asking those questions to myself will be quite useful in the future. Reading the LICENSE and CONTRIBUTING and CODE\_OF\_CONDUCT and is something that I have known that I needed to do before but often have been too lazy to--a reminder was definitely welcome. Reminders that first issue tags on issues can be a great place to start is very useful.

Going over some specifics with projects like Coala was also elucidating seeing the very odd breakdowns in communication that can occur with FOSS maintainers. Exercism was a good example of a well organized project and AnitaB.org was interesting as an example of something that makes contribution non-obvious, and also a reminder of how cool Grace Hopper is.

## Me like words

Our team got together on Wednesday of this week after class, and we collaborated on our extension! I handled most of the javascript code, Jose handled most of the the structure code (manifest, html) and also did great code reviews, and Amber handled the documentation/live log for the most part! We got things to a point where it was implemented but still buggy on Wednesday afternoon and I managed to fully implement the code on Wednesday night! It was very difficult debugging some of these things as I have not done javascript in a while and I didn't quite understand that the popup window was an entirely separate document context that could only access the original document via rpc, but after I figured that out it was pretty rote. Initially, Amber had made a CSV parser that parsed from a file, but that required Node.js to use and therefore I just used a very simple newline and comma split version of a csv parser in order to get things to work from a text box. We communicated well and did a good job of complementing our strengths and weaknesses! My biggest contributions are the two js files other than read\_csv.js. They handle the word replacement logic and the cat link insertion logic, involving algorithmic techniques! We met up to work on our presentation over the internet on Saturday evening, and we were able to hammer out our presentation without too much effort
