---
layout: post
title: Week 2, Conduct and Contribution
---

The benefits of a code of conduct are as follows:

- People are inspired to follow these rules proactively

- There is a defined set of ways people can be found to infringe upon these rules

- There is a defined process by which people can raise concerns, and a set way of how the concerns are dealt with

- People can feel more secure when commenting on or contributing to the project

<!--more-->

## Part 1

Go replaces the word "enforcement" in the contributor covenant to "conflict resolution", which makes the language seem less harsh and makes the contributing environment more welcoming

Eclipse's code of conduct can be found [here](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community\_Code\_of\fConduct.php), and it has much stricter descriptions and enforcement.

Because Eclipse is a community run and owned project, they need to be a lot more descriptive about the bounds of contribution, as the central authority that determines violations has less control over the individual maintainers.

## Part 2

Sugar Labs directly references free software, and is much more focused on values rather than details, like Go's document is. As a kid-focused project, there is less wiggle room, so the code of conduct is very explicit that while it allows disagreement, any "bad behavior" is not tolerated. Furthermore, unlike the Go document, the individual contributors are tasked with making sure that their contributions are maintained when they leave, more crucial in Sugar Labs' context because they are not backed by a large corporation. Additionally, unlike Go's document, Sugar Labs' document has a Spanish version of their code of conduct, pointing to a contributor base that is more friendly to people who speak different languages. The Sugar Labs code of conduct is based on the Ubuntu code of conduct.

## Part 3

The linux kernel contains a code of conduct which is based on the contributor covenant [here](https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/process/code-of-conduct.html)

This code of conduct differs much less from the contributor covenant than the Go code of conduct. The only section in which there is any significant difference from the template is the Enforcement section.

There is additionally a record of instances in which the code of conduct were applied and the results of that application [here](https://kernel.org/code-of-conduct.html)

Notably, unlike the two template codes of conduct we saw, the linux kernel project has a full page describing how the code of conduct is to be interpreted. This is due to controversies surrounding the code of conduct in the past. The interpretation can be found [here](https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/process/code-of-conduct-interpretation.html#code-of-conduct-interpretation)

This interpretation section contains things which might have otherwise been edits to the code of conduct template--it emphasizes that the Linux kernel project is a very "personal" process with a nearly definite chance for revisions to be requested, it describes that enforcement of the code of conduct is a last resort and the responsibility of maintainers and contributors to adhere the stipulations of and report violations to the code of conduct--it notably mentions that while the project is open to new contributors, maintainers have limited responsibility to aclimate and educate new contributors. It further stipulates the exact enforcement process to be taken and possibilities of veto to that process. None of these things are really described on the Go code of conduct.

Compared to the Sugar Labs code of conduct, the Linux code of conduct (including the interpretation section) seems by and large more bureaucratic, which makes sense given the much larger contributor base and much more critical nature of the linux kernel. While both are very values-oriented, the linux project's code of conduct states much more specifically what qualifies as a violation, what kind of violations warrant what kind of enforcement (if any), and how to initiate the enforcement process. Both however do contain instructions/advice/warnings for contributors who wish to get started contributing to the project!

# Add-on project:

Doing the first 4 steps of the add-on project was pretty straightforward! I wanted to just get a little bit of a sense of how to change the source code so I modified each of the examples. The borderify example I made the border blue, and the beastify example I changed it to vegetableify so that you can see carrots, onions, or potatoes, instead of animals.

The vast majority of this project was merely reading and copy pasting from the examples, which was not bad--the javascript in the first example was trivial, and although nontrivial, the javascript in the second example could be reasonably easily understood and changed in smaller parts of its scope. The only annoying part of this stage was that one of my groupmates ended up having the files she downloaded end in the extension .jpeg whereas the program was looking for them as .jpg, so needing to manually change that was slightly annoying. For step 3, I have explored many github repositories already and so this experience was not difficult and reading through the readme/code of conduct/contributing guidelines was really all that was necessary! It was interesting doing this for a project I have never done before.

For the fourth step, we had a difficult time of deciding what exactly to choose as our group's favorite browser extension--I don't think any of the extensions I use are terribly interesting in terms of the questions that were being asked, so we chose one from another of my group members' favorites: "I don't care about cookies". This extension surprised me because although it was licensed as open source, there was no open repository (only zip files) and no contribution instructions, meaning that it is sort of intentionally made such that only the creator can contribute meaningfully except if someone else wanted to fork the code into a new repository.

Part 5 just allowed us to do some exploration of what exactly we wanted to be doing for the extension project! We decided to make an extension that looks through text on a webpage and changes any instances of one thing to another. So for example, we can perform a caesar cipher, or we can change every instance of "me" to "I".
If we can make it work, doing this by reading rules to change text by from a CSV would be great as then we might be able to allow users to create their own text changing rules in ways other than by modifying the code! We have not done significant work on this yet, but would like to in the future!
