---
layout: post
title: Week 12, Insulin and Investigation
---

# Snider's presentation
I was, unfortunately, unable to attend the presentation due to the Jewish Holiday of Passover, and there was no lecture recording up, however I will still give my commentary on the informational material provided to be done preliminary to the talk. Certainly one of the biggest issues in human health in the United States is access to cost-effective medical treatment. The fact is that much of the medical care is being sold at extremely inflated profit margins due to oligopoly conditions in the healthcare sector, and treatment for diabetics is an extreme example of this, with the price of insulin at several times the price of insulin in other countries [as per the US government](https://aspe.hhs.gov/reports/comparing-insulin-prices-us-other-countries). In addition, the machines that people use to deliver insulin to their bloodstream have similarly suffered under oligopoly conditions, inflating price and limiting user extensibility, making those who need treatment at the whim of companies whose interests align with their shareholders rather than diabetics. Open source software has been able to weaken these oligopoly conditions considerably.

<!--more-->

Tidepool's work, as well as that of related projects such as Nightscout and OpenAPS, makes the data gathered by and software on continuous glucose monitors more accessible and makes the software on these devices able to be modified by programmers whose interests are entirely aligned with those of diabetics rather than with their employer's and their shareholders. Additionally, attempts at making open source insulin aim to help reduce the incredibly inflated prices of insulin in this country. Open source in the diabetes treatment space allows the health of diabetics to be put back in their hands. Tidepool Loop's FDA clearance now makes it even more likely that diabetics will be able to take control of their own health because doctors will be more likely to prescribe that piece of open source healthcare software to diabetics. These benefits to open source in healthcare extend not simply to diabetics, but also to all of healthcare as a whole.

# Group investigation

Currently, our group is still struggling somewhat with finding an avenue of contribution in the kernel, however I have been able to make a certain amount of progress towards one of the TODOs that I've been working on, cacheing values. However, I'm having some trouble testing it. The TODO in question relates to memory hotplug when there's no NUMA support. Essentially, putting in a new stick of ram without rebooting the system where the CPU's map of memory is very constrained. Emulating the putting in of this new stick of ram into the system in qemu is theoretically possible and I've looked at some documentation for how to do this (which you can see on the [wiki page](https://github.com/ossd-s23/wiki/wiki/Group_03_Linux)), however I have been running into an issue where the kernel can't detect the hotswap of ram even when compiled with the correct parameters (it shows a warning message). This will require more investigation into exactly how memory hotswap is performed in the kernel. Additionally, I haven't made that much progress in my secondary avenue of contribution--tablet mode switching on my laptop--because the information on how I can interface with the firmware is extremely limited, as my laptop was sold with windows in mind rather than linux and they have not cared to release the firmware information to open source, so it might need to be figured out via reverse engineering. I will attempt to work somewhat on this reverse engineering in this coming week, and I also aim to help Jinli as I can with his TODOs.
