---
layout: post
title: Week 9, In the Bazaar
---

## Linux Project Progress

Jinli and I are finally nearing an actual contribution to the Linux Kernel, which we have not been able to do in earnest yet because acclimating to such a huge project is a big deal. I think in certain ways the Bazaar that Raymond was talking about has become a great deal less accessible than it once was, with the vast majority of contributions from individuals working for companies rather than from individuals.

<!--more-->

In terms of our work on the Linux Kernel, I have installed the system call fuzzer syzkaller and can use it to try to find bugs in the kernel that could be potential avenues for contributions. However, I also have identified that the kfence kernel memory leak detection subsystem as a rather stale part of the kernel which we could definitely contribute to because there seem to be some pieces of code written there that are not well written and that could potentially be contributed to in a productive way. It basically seems not to have been changed significantly since it was created in 2020, which I found through searching for the least recently modified code files in the memory management subsystem, and after further inspection I believe it is likely to be a place where we can make actual progress in contributing something meaningful to the kernel!

I still do have some worries about this though, as I have a little bit less time than I was expecting to work on the project (particularly with the Jewish Holiday of Passover coming up), and there is still a not insignificant possibility that our contribution will not be received well upstream, however I think that I have reasons to be more hopeful now than I was a couple of weeks ago. I think both I and Jinli are ready to actually push something upstream after all of this time, as it has been a very daunting task to even get to this point in the first place.

## Reflections

I found the reflections midterm exercise to be a reasonably good way for me to summarize and collate the information I had in my head from the whole course, although I think that at least an option for a question about the smaller contributions I have been making might have helped as well. I think that overall I did a reasonable job in writing about the many things that I learned so far in this course, and think that I will be prepared for the final reflections exercise!
