---
layout: post
title: Week 15, Presentation and Penultimates
---

# Other Presentations

Listening to the presentations of my classmates was very interesting! Hearing the struggles that they had with various things: whether it was not getting assigned interesting contributions as in MAPLE at the beginning, or not getting responses at all from the upstream maintainers in the chat, or even the owner of the project having gone MIA in the case of jarvis, or getting sniped on issues as in several groups' cases, it fascinated me to hear about all of the different potential pitfalls that could come up when trying to contribute to an open source project. However, it was also heartening to hear some of the success that other groups had with the amount that they were able to contribute to in a visually significant way, as in p5.js, even though it was a little bit aggravating to me to see how smoothly they could find avenues to contribute towards. However I do take a good amount of solace in the fact that the change that I was able to make, making a few special keys work on my keyboard, will have a direct impact on my everyday life, whereas for many of these contributions they are towards a part of a project that the people contributing either have not used (such as in the case of mindsdb) or is a part not meant for repeated use, such as a tutorial or translation.

<!--more-->

I was particularly impressed by the contributions that the group covering MAPLE was able to make, and it does seem that there are significant benefits to working on a small team that is new and incredibly dedicated. However there are also clearly downsides, and I wouldn't have wanted to contribute to MAPLE, given that I'm not terribly interested in front-end development, and it seems that for the most part the group was assigned front-end development tasks whether they wanted them or not. I was gladdened to see that most groups are very happy with their project and many will continue to work on their projects in the future, however it's also unfortunate that there were a couple of groups where people had a great deal of trouble with the act of installing the program/setting up the development environment which sapped their motivation for future contributions.

I think watching the other presentations has clearly shown me that actually understanding how a project is to contribute to is a nearly impossible question to answer unless you actually try. I think this lesson has motivated me to be more corageous with my contributions because it's always worth a try at least.

# Our Presentation

Jinli and I met this week to work on our presentation, after we had already worked extensively on creating our presentation. Creating the presentation was not terribly interesting to me, as it was mostly a regurgitation on my end of things I had already written up on blog posts or in the meeting logs for our group. It was also somewhat difficult finding proper visual aids for our presentation, given that the linux kernel is a kind of project where images and things like that are extremely scarce, and diagrams that could be provided would likely be too complicated to be of any help to people who are not well versed in the kernel. However, Jinli and I created our presentation and have been practicing it, trying very hard to fit it back down into the time frame that we need to to present it. The kernel is a difficult project to explain to people who are not somewhat well-versed in git and OS and computer architecture, however we have been more or less able to find the bounds of what we can productively explain in a short period of time, and the depth in which we can go to those things that we wish to explain.

I think overall I'm looking forward to our presentation on Monday, partially because it's been a long time coming to have us be able to show off our contributions to the largest and most active open source project in the world, and also it will be a very nice way to cap off a fun and engaging course in which I learned a lot, both in terms of hard knowledge and vital soft skills.
