---
layout: post
title: Week 11, Cathedral and Priors
---

## The Cathedral and the Bazaar

I had actually read this essay several years ago, when I first got very interested in the history of open source. I think that the lesson "Good programmers know what to write. Great ones know what to rewrite (and reuse)." is the one that I found to resonate with me the most. The fact is that many programmers can make a solution to a problem. It takes a more robust understanding of programming to know that an off the shelf solution to a great number of common problems is already written by someone else and can be integrated while keeping the amount of code you have to maintain smaller, but also know that sometimes the off-the-shelf solution isn't quite what you want in your case and that you need to rewrite it. I actually think the linux kernel is no longer really very characteristic of the bazaar model, just given the fact that at the moment the (vast) majority of contributions is being done by employees of corporations with a stake in making Linux a good server operating system, and in my experience ideas need to be okayed by various different companies with different needs and requirements so instead of being a bazaar of individual users it's much more a bazaar of a number of different corporations, and as many of these workers are working on the kernel full time, they are much more akin to the cathedral model of development than they were prior.

<!--more-->

## Other group stand-ups

I found a lot of the ways in which the other groups (e.g. MAPLE) embedded themselves within the community for their respective projects very heartening! I also found the fact that there were quite a few different kinds of contributions that people were making to their projects, whether it's translation or code contribution or issue creation or flyer making to be a good display of the variety of ways that open source software can be improved.
Some of the installation procedures seemed to be incredibly difficult, which surprised me particularly given that the projects would not have seemed to me to require anything incredibly specific in the installation environment.
It was also good to see that people are still at a variety of stages in their contributions, given that Jinli and I still haven't finished a contribution yet, which makes me think it is realistic but also that we are not uniquely behind.

## Linux Project Progress

Jinli and I decided that we need to bite the bullet and really start charging forward at one specific piece of code and trying to find significant errors or possibilities for improvement. This really seems like what will be required to contribute to the kernel at this point. We have decided to look through the drivers in order to see if there is anything we can contribute to the kernel. One thing I am doing is looking into the code that handles some vendor specific things that my laptop that do not work yet in the kernel--particularly, the kernel does not include anything to detect whether my 2-in-1 laptop has been flipped up into tablet mode. Being able to fix that would not only be a worthwhile contribution to the krenl, but would also be particularly convenient to me! That has resulted into a deep dive into other vendor-specific code and it may or may not be entirely possible to do without a lot more reverse engineering than I believe I am capable of at my current level of understanding of the kernel and of device drivers in general. However, I am hopeful that I may be able to find something here. Unfortunately I have not had that much time to do lots of work this past week, because of the Jewish Holiday of Passover.
