---
layout: post
title: Week 1, Definitions and Origins
---

This week of class focused mainly on the nature of open source software, both legally and culturally. We contemplated questions as specific as "what are the criteria licesnse-wise for a piece of code to be open source?", as expansive as "what is the history of the open source movement?", and as practical as "how do we judge the accessibility to new contributors of open source projects?".

## My Story

I have had a longstanding interest in Open Source Software--way back in high school when I was taking my first computer science classes, and I began to truly understand what exactly Open Source Software is, I became a staunch believer in the benefits, both functional and moral, of software with visible source code which can be modified by users without (significant) restrictions. It is this philosophical stance that is called to mind when I think of the term "open source".

<!--more-->

In my view, the functional benefits include the following things:

- Open source software can be collaborated on by many parties so that the work they do can be added on to the work other parties do.

- Relatedly, allowing other developers to view and edit source code means that the creator/company building that software doesn't have to spend time and resources on doing that work themself.

- Letting the source code be viewed helps independent researchers find vulnerabilities quicker.

- Having an open source program that can be used and viewed and modified by anyone makes it less likely that incompatible standards are created by 2 or more different entities.

- Open source software can exist long after original maintainers abandon them due to forks.

- Open source software gives companies good PR and also an air of increased credibility.

The moral benefits 

- People, I believe, have a right to know what they are running on their computer. Open source projects, and particularly Libre/Free software projects, provide a guarantee that the software you run can be audited by someone who knows what is going on.

- Open source software projects have a much more difficult time violating users' privacy, as if tracking/telemetry is put into an open source project, a privacy respecting fork can be created (see what happened with Audacity).

- Open source software is often accessible to more groups that a closed source project may not see a reason to impact--the community can translate it and port it to different systems and contexts, allowing swaths of users who could previously not use a piece of software to not only use it but improve upon it.

- Open source software projects are almost always preserved for posterity, whereas closed source projects may never be released even long after their commercial significance has ended.

- Open source software projects contribute to the collective knowledge and capability of the human race rather than being hoarded for the benefit of a few shareholders.

The drawbacks of open source software are in my view pragmatic

- It's harder to make money off of open source software than off of closed source software, particularly when sold as SaaS.

- Allowing for forks may split developer attention away onto many different projects, although I don't think this is a huge concern in practice.

- Attackers can find vulnerabilities in the source code, or even inject their own if they obfuscate it well enough. I don't think this is a huge concern in practice, as there are also more people capable of catching vulnerabilities, and the difficulty of getting intentional vulnerabilities through a robust code review process is very high.

I do not include in this list difficulties that are only because of superior processes to closed source software--the possibility of a community hostile to inexperienced contributors is still better than one that disallows any contributors from outside the organization creating this software.

## My thoughts

It is because of my understanding of the benefits of OSS, and my love for particular pieces of OSS, that I have wanted to work with open source for a long time, and over this past summer I managed to do that, working on the Linux Kernel Memory Manager as an intern at Google. This experience led me to want to learn more about open source and do more with it, thus leading me to want to take this class even more than I wanted to previously. The Linux Kernel has had a profound impact on me as an open source project for several reasons. It was the first open source software project that I became enamored with--I was fascinated by the complexity and scale of it, and amazed at the ubiquity of it, being dominant in pretty much every market except for personal computers. It was additionally, the first open source software project that I had to work on without having any clue of how it worked or where to start--having been tasked to write a loadable kernel module with for linux without knowing a thing about how the codebase was structured or what the data structures were or anything of the sort. Finally, it was the first, and so far only, open source project to which I have contributed to in a corporate setting, which showed me that yes, open source can be a viable commercial endeavor.

A related piece of open source software (related because it was written by the same person) that has significantly influenced me is git. Git helped acclimate me to the world of real devops workflows and collaboration, but more than that showed me how one can use a piece of software for years on end and still always find new features of it and new ways to use it.

The open source project that has made the most impact on my life is probably Wikipedia. Although not a software project, Wikipedia has aggregated a great deal of human knowledge into a single common repository that is freely and openly accessible to anyone. That is profound on a philosophical level, but also it has been extremely useful for me in my daily life in terms of sating my curiosity and solving stupid arguments as well as helping me really understand computer science and math concepts.

To pivot to a different context of my life, I am a practicing Jew and I think that my cultural and religious heritage is very important and should be made accessible to everyone. Sefaria is a website developed by an eponymous organization which contains many different versions of Jewish texts, including religious texts such as the Torah, early and more modern rabinnic commentary, concordances, and more. Sefaria has all of these texts digitized on one website, with convenient navigation between them (i.e. in one click you can see which commentators commented on a specific line in the Torah), and with an open source codebase. (Some of the translations of religious texts included are public domain, while others are not, so not everything on the website can be copied freely, but the same is true of internet archive with i.e. the wayback machine). It is somewhat analogous to Internet Archive however meant more to be actively used in ways relevant to the present day rather than just as an archive. The fact that huge corpuses of text (such as the talmud, which costs hundreds of dollars to buy in print, as there are enough volumes to fill an entire bookshelf) which are integral to the religious tradition of my people are now accessible to everybody online is amazing and a great sign about the potential technology has to uphold rather than erase tradition.

Open source software has had an incredible impact on me as a person as well as the world at large, and I honestly do feel indebted to those who put in a great deal of work to develop things that I rely on personally, and that human civilization relies on as a whole. Thus, I think it is somewhat of a moral imperative for me to desire to give back to the open source community, in at least some way, and doing so through this course would really be an amazing thing for me.
