---
layout: post
title: Week 6, Contributions and Projections
---

## Thoughts about projects

The humanitarian open source projects we looked at in class all fascinate me in terms of impact, although not all of them are terribly interesting technically to me. A further real annoyance for me in terms of the development cycles of a lot of these projects consist of a huge rush of development efforts when there is a new crisis brewing, and basically nothing in between these crises (e.g. Humanitarian Data Exchange, Ushahidi). However, projects like TidePool seem to have very interesting problems they need to tackle, in a form that open source hasn't really addressed before.

The non-humanitarian projects that I have looked at seem to be doing things that are novel and technically interesting. JS react provides a new way to deal with frontend, Hadoop provides a new way to deal with cluster computing. Arch linux provides a new paradigm for linux distributions, and the linux kernel produces the most technically complex and commercially deployed operating system in the world.

Many of the humanitarian projects seem to have much more well-rounded ideas of what contributions can be than the non-humanitarian ones. This may be because these non-humanitarian projects are not made for tech people but rather for people who could benefit from humanitarian software. Thus, they have a different perspective in general. However I'm not sure this necessarily means that they are more welcoming communities in general to coding contributors who aren't familiar with the codebase. 

<!--more-->

## Exciting yet daunting

I would have to say out of all the things about contributing to an open source project, the greatest excitement I have is to produce something of actual tangible use to people, and to have that thing be freely available in a principled way. I would really like to have at least a part of the contribution I make be something novel that is not just reinventing the wheel on a web backend/frontend, as even if that contribution may help an important project, from my web development experience, I have found it to be unfulfilling to personally contribute to. I think that particularly working on low level software has been interesting and a good way of learning the fundamentals of how things work, and I think the pursuit of an understanding of how things work has also been a strong factor of my excitement to contriubute to open source projects.

I am worried that there will be a number of large challenges, including but not limited to:

- An unwelcoming community

- A difficult codebase to get acclimated to

- A dearth of ways to productively contribute

- Unresponsive or unhelpful maintainers

I think that the best way to overcome all of these is just to read what the community says about itself, its chat logs, and develop a working relationship with at least a couple of active members of the community who would be willing to be available to support and help a new contributor, and who would provide a sense of credibility to you in the community. Obviously this is also an easy way to scope out unresponsive or unhelpful maintainers beforehand
