---
layout: post
title: Week 9, FOSS OSes
---

## FreeDOS

The talk from Jim Hall was fascinating, and I definitely enjoyed his look on software history as a whole. I am personally quite interested in the history of software development, and as someone with a specific interest in operating systems, I am particularly interested in the history of operating systems. I had not known about FreeDOS before although I had actually used DOS in DOSBox before, as I made a 16 bit real mode x86 program to make a bootloader that plays minesweeper (a 16 bit assembly program that fits in one 512 bit hard drive sector that can be used as a boot sector that plays the game minecraft using BIOS interrupts), which can be found [here](https://www.github.com/jesings/bootsweeper). 

<!--more-->

I knew that DOSBox was a VM, and given that VMs were too resource hungry for most computer users in the 90s, the fact that there was a full open source implementation of the DOS operating system makes sense. Hearing about how open source project organization works from a seasoned veteran was further a good window into how OSS works in the real world. In addition, Jim Hall was a very clear and engaging communicator and I think his charisma is a big boon for organizing a project like this, not to mention a boon for the education and consulting tasks that Mr. Hall takes for himself on the side. 

## Linux

Jinli and I were able to fully set up our Linux testing environment over break, and we got started familiarizing ourselves with things that we can actually do by way of contributions to Linux. He and I were able to build the kernel, and make simple modifications to it. I was able to boot it up to a virtual machine with an Arch Linux userspace. One avenue we might go down for finding contributions is fuzzing, which seems like a potential way to find bugs for us to fix, which requires a userspace including a text editor like that provided by Arch Linux. As my host is Arch Linux that was the simplest one to set up. Squatting the bugtracker doesn't seem like a great avenue to find things to work on, because the bugs are almost always given out to experienced Linux developers with lightning fast turnaround times, and we can't put ourselves forward in place of them very well. I have a couple of architecturally sweeping ideas for a few changes we could propose upstream to the Linux kernel, and I wonder if we may potentially be able to do so, but I think they are for after we get a simple first contribution in and feel comfortable. Additionally, we set up our nyu gmail accounts with an access token and we are going to be able to use that for git send-email to submit our patches upstream. We tested it and and were able to send things to our own emails as a test. I read lots of documentation for how to format a kernel patch, and how to actually pitch things to the upstream community.
