---
layout: post
title: Week 5, Libraries and Learning
---

## Mek Karpeles talk

Hearing Mek Karpeles talk was interesting in terms of the organizational and legal problems that one gets into with open source software that pushes the frontiers of what is currently widely accessible, however I was disappointed in the lack of significant discussion of the technical aspects of OpenLibrary or Internet Archive's software and hardware, although I suppose that might be something only of interest to people like me who are interested in broader structural function rather than on specifics of how to contribute. I have a particular interest in the specifics of architecture at scale, especially given that I will be doing work on file systems at colossal scale after I graduate, so I would definitely be curious in how a nonprofit handles that within their budgetary constraints.

<!--more-->

I definitely think that what OpenLibrary is doing should be protected under law, as ownership of a copy of digital material should be the default, and these materials should not be licensed only. Furthermore, I think that the digital paradigm that takes ownership away from the user is an awful one. However, I am not sure what exactly the law currently stipulates, and the lawyers that the plaintiffs can hire may be able to establish case law that I would not approve of. I would personally want to go further and enshrine that all ebooks should be owned by the purchaser, rather than licensed to them, however that is unlikely to be a successful endeavor.

## Small contributions

I have done several small contributions to various projects over the span of this course so far. I made 2 contributions to the course website, one fixing a broken link as per another student's issue, and one creating a new issue reporting an inconsistent dating scheme. I additionally made one contribution to another student's blog, which was creating an issue pointing out a typo on the wrong week in a blog post's title. I additionally made a submission to OpenStreet Maps, which was a useful experience even though I apparently deleted some information which should not have been deleted.

The rest of my contributions were to an open source research project that I have been contributing to since my freshman year under the Aegis of Tandon Professor Justin Cappos' Secure Systems Lab. Particularly, a couple of pull request reviews given in order to judge the safety and suitability of a somewhat major change made to two separate components of the codebase. Reading through other people's code is not an easy task, but given that this is a codebase that I am somewhat familiar, it's a lot better than it would otherwise be.
