---
layout: post
title: Week 4, Projects and Pull Requests
---
Working on the group project was a very interesting and educational experience. Working with browser add-on technology was also quite novel to me. Working with my group on the project was also quite a pleasant experience!

<!--more-->

I think our group did very well in that we complemented each other's skill sets quite well and were able to help each other when we were stuck. My contributions consisted primarily of the core javascript logic that actually drove the text replacement as well as the button presses/text input. I also freshened up the CSS from the default.

I learned a number of things while working on the add-on assignment

- I haven't worked with javascript much since 2.5 years ago, and even that was using javascript react, so doing things in a more vanilla javascript environment was something I absolutely had to relearn.

- Additionally the particulars of add-on programming were very new to me.

- Doing anything in css involving gradients was new to me and that was fun to learn.

- I had my preferred groupwork style reinforced, I like it when people take charge of things to do on their own, and we were able to figure out initial tasks for everyone to do together and then when we were done with things we would start working on the next thing we thought was necessary, which we checked with the group.

- I have already done a more complicated git workflow, but getting that reinforced for a web project was an educational experience.

I liked other teams presentations and add-ons as well

- I think that Kodehub, group 1's project, had a very polished presentation, which made it seem very professional, which I now understand is often quite important to sell to users

- On the flipside, the Youtube Interface Customizer from group 4 had stunning visuals and documentation as well as functionality which are also important for users as well as for contributors, for whom documentation is very helpful.

- I think that relative to these, our project, although not aesthetically awful, and although functionally quite sound, was not exactly on the same tier of presentation relative to Kodehub or the same level of documentation or visual stunningness as Youtube Interface Customizer.

- Brightspace PDF viewer from group 6 noted the many pitfalls of iframes and I came across some of these on brightspace when trying to run our project, as brightspace has many hidden root html nodes.

- I like always on time from group 2 and TabColor from group 8 as they seem like things that I might find actually useful.

- Overall my favorite would have to be group 4, their customizer, particularly the feature of turning the youtube playtime tracker into a little animated gif is amazing.
